chore: release notes for 4.12.0 (#5442)
leanprover/lean4: RELEASES.md

* **Incrementality**
  * [#4974](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/4974) fixes regression where we would not interrupt elaboration of previous document versions.
  * [#5004](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/5004) fixes a performance regression.
  * [#5001](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/5001) disables incremental body elaboration in presence of `where` clauses in declarations.
  * [#5018](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/5018) enables infotrees on the command line for ilean generation.
  * [#5040](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/5040) and [#5056](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/5056) improve performance of info trees.
  * [#5090](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/5090) disables incrementality in the `case .. | ..` tactic.

* **Definitions**
  * [#5016](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/5016) and [#5066](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/5066) add `clean_wf` tactic to clean up tactic state in `decreasing_by`. This can be disabled with `set_option debug.rawDecreasingByGoal false`.
  * [#5055](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/5055) unifies equational theorems between structural and well-founded recursion.

>   * [#5041](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/5041) allows mutual recursion to have its shared prefix of parameters to be up to alpha-equivalence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * [#5041](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/5041) allows mutually recursive functions to use different parameter names among the “fixed parameter prefix”
```

  * [#4967](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/4967) adds linter name to errors when a linter crashes.
  * [#5043](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/5043) cleans up command line snapshots logic.
  * [#5067](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/5067) minimizes some imports.
  * [#5068](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/5068) generalizes the monad for `addMatcherInfo`.
  * [f71a1f](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/commit/f71a1fb4ae958fccb3ad4d48786a8f47ced05c15) adds missing test for [#5126](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/issues/5126).
  * [#5201](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/5201) restores a test.
  * [#3698](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/3698) fixes a bug where label attributes did not pass on the attribute kind.
  * Typos: [#5080](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/5080), [#5150](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/5150), [#5202](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/5202)

### Compiler, runtime, and FFI

> * [#3106](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/3106) enables parallelism when Lean is invoked from the command line. `Frontend.processCommand` and `FrontendM` are no longer used by Lean core; they will be preserved, but they will not benefit from parallelism going forward.

Author: @Kha I gather this is wrong. Would "enables new snapshot architecture when Lean is invoked from the command line" be better?

Reviewer 2: I really wouldn't spend any time on these internals, there are no external effects

* [#5034](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/5034) fixes the install name of `libleanshared_1` on macOS.
* [#5051](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/5051) fixes Windows stage 0.
* [#5052](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/5052) fixes 32bit stage 0 builds in CI.
* [#5057](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/5057) avoids rebuilding `leanmanifest` in each build.
* [#5099](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/5099) makes `restart-on-label` workflow also filter by commit SHA.
* [#4325](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/4325) adds CaDiCaL.

### Breaking changes

* [LibUV](https://libuv.org/) is now required to build Lean. This change only affects developers who compile Lean themselves instead of obtaining toolchains via `elan`. We have updated the official build instructions with information on how to obtain LibUV on our supported platforms. ([#4963](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/4963))

* Recursive definitions with a `decreasing_by` clause that begins with `simp_wf` may break. Try removing `simp_wf` or replacing it with `simp`. ([#5016](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/5016))

> * Previously, `rw [Option.map]` would rewrite `Option.map f o` to `match o with … `. Now this rewrite will fail because the equational lemmas require constructors here (like they do for, say, `List.map`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The behavior of `rw [f]` where `f` is a non-recursive function defined by pattern matching changed.

  For example, preciously, `rw [Option.map]` would rewrite `Option.map f o` to `match o with … `. Now this rewrite fails because it will use the equational lemmas, and these require constructors – just like for `List.map`.
```

v4.12.0
----------

### Language features, tactics, and metaprograms

> * `bv_decide` tactic. This release introduces a new tactic for proving goals involving `BitVec` and `Bool`. It reduces the goal to an SAT instance that is refuted by an external solver, and the resulting LRAT proof is  checked in Lean using. This is used to synthesize a proof of the goal by reflection. As this process uses verified algorithms, proofs generated by this tactic use `Lean.ofReduceBool`, so this tactic includes the Lean compiler as part of the trusted code base.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `bv_decide` tactic. This release introduces a new tactic for proving goals involving `BitVec` and `Bool`. It reduces the goal to a SAT instance that is refuted by an external solver, and the resulting LRAT proof is  checked in Lean using. This is used to synthesize a proof of the goal by reflection. As this process uses verified algorithms, proofs generated by this tactic use `Lean.ofReduceBool`, so this tactic includes the Lean compiler as part of the trusted code base.
```

also, broken sentence that ends at `using.`

  * [#4990](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/4990) fixes bug in hashing for the kernel's `Expr` equality test.
  * [#4935](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/4935) and [#4936](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/4936) skip some `PreDefinition` transformations if they are not needed.
  * [#5225](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/5225) adds caching for visited exprs at `CheckAssignmentQuick` in `ExprDefEq`.
  * [#5226](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/5226) maximizes term sharing at `instantiateMVarDeclMVars`, used by `runTactic`.
* **Diagnostics and profiling**
  * [#4923](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/4923) adds profiling for `instantiateMVars` in `Lean.Elab.MutualDef`, which can be a bottleneck there.
  * [#4924](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/4924) adds diagnostics for large theorems, controlled by the `diagnostics.threshold.proofSize` option.
  * [#4897](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/4897) improves display of diagnostic results.
* **Other fixes or improvements**
  * [#4921](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/4921) cleans up `Expr.betaRev`.

>   * [#4940](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/4940) fixes tests by not writing directly to stdout, which unreliable now that elaboration and reporting are executed in separate threads.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * [#4940](https://github.com/leanprover/lean4/pull/4940) fixes tests by not writing directly to stdout, which is unreliable now that elaboration and reporting are executed in separate threads.
```
